# Cardiothoracic Disease Diagnosis: Using Machine Learning for Accurate Disease Detection from Chest Scans


## Introduction
Cardiovascular diseases were rare before the 20th century, but have become the leading cause of death worldwide since the 1960s. Early and accurate diagnosis is crucial for effective treatment, but interpreting chest scans can be challenging, leading to misdiagnoses. To address this challenge, we applied a 2D CNN to diagnose cardiothoracic diseases. Furthermore, we employed inductive transfer learning of YOLOv7 and EfficientDet and designed a customized DETR transformer model for detection of health issues that lie within the patient's scan. During this, we focused on treating three conditions: Cardiomegaly, Pneumonia, and Covid-19. Cardiomegaly is a key indicator of potential heart disease which can be difficult to detect in chest radiographs due to its subtle presentation. We also decided to look into Covid-19 and Pneumonia, given their prevalence in today's population and the significant impact they have on mortality rates. 

## Data Collection
To create our main dataset for training, we gathered data from various sources, including the NCBI and NIH. Each image was preprocessed with a bounding box to indicate the disease location. With this data, we trained our models to accurately detect COVID-19, Pneumonia, and Cardiomegaly in chest scans. We used industry-standard data augmentation techniques, such as random cropping, rotation, and horizontal flips, to diversify our data and generate a larger pool of accurate data.These augmentation methods enabled us to generate data that accurately reflects the common complexities and impurities in diagnostic imaging. The use of this technique allowed for a significant increase in our pool of data.
